TanStack Start SDK (#1495)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/references/tanstack-start/get-auth.mdx

---
title: '`getAuth()`'
description: The getAuth() helper retrieves the authentication state allowing you to protect your API routes or gather relevant data.
---

> The `getAuth()` helper retrieves the authentication state, allowing you to protect your routes or gather relevant data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getAuth()` helper retrieves authentication state from the request object.
```

## Parameters

<Properties>
  - `request`

>   The Request object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The request object.
```

  ---

  - `opts?`

  An optional object that can be used to configure the behavior of the `getAuth()` function. It accepts the following properties:

  - `secretKey?`: A string that represents the secret key used to sign the session token. If not provided, the secret key is retrieved from the environment variable `CLERK_SECRET_KEY`.
</Properties>

## Returns

> `getAuth()` returns the [`Auth`](/docs/references/nextjs/auth-object) object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`getAuth()` returns the [`Auth`](/docs/references/nextjs/auth-object){{ target: '_blank' }} object.
```

## Usage

### Basic usage

> The following example demonstrates how to use `getAuth()` to retrieve authentication information in a server function and API routes.

Reviewer: This specific example only shows how to use getAuth in a server function - not also an API route. Let's remove that part from the sentence.

```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to use `getAuth()` to retrieve authentication information in a server function.
```

> ```tsx {{ filename: 'app/routes/index.tsx' }}

Reviewer: Same errors that I mentioned from the quickstart

Author: As said in the quickstart this is due to the `/sign-in` route is a just placeholder to showcase that you can redirect to any defined page, we can replace the path with a comment for this example if we want to not having the type error if the path does not exist

import { createFileRoute, useRouter, redirect } from '@tanstack/react-router'
import { createServerFn } from '@tanstack/start'
import { getAuth } from '@clerk/tanstack-start/server'

const authStateFn = createServerFn('GET', async (_, { request }) => {
  const { userId } = await getAuth(request)

  if (!userId) {
    throw redirect({
      to: '/sign-in',
    })
  }

  return { userId }
})

export const Route = createFileRoute('/')({
  component: Home,
  beforeLoad: await authStateFn(),
  loader: async ({ context }) => {
    return { userId: context.userId }
  },
})

function Home() {
  const router = useRouter()
  const state = Route.useLoaderData()

  return <h1>Welcome your id is {state.userId}!</h1>
}
```

### Protect API routes

> It is important to protect your API routes to ensure that only authenticated users can access them. You can do this by checking if the `userId` is present in the `getAuth()` response, like in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to protect your API routes to ensure that only authenticated users can access them. You can do this by checking if the `userId` is present in the `getAuth()` response, as shown in the following example:
```

> ```ts {{ filename: 'app/routes/api/currentUser.ts' }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ts {{ filename: 'app/routes/api/example.ts' }}
```

Author: FIxed!

import { getAuth } from '@clerk/nextjs/server'
import { json } from '@tanstack/start'
import { createAPIFileRoute } from '@tanstack/start/api'

export const Route = createAPIFileRoute('/api/currentUser')({
  GET: async ({ request, params }) => {
    const { userId } = await getAuth(request)

    if (!userId) {
      return json({ error: 'Unauthorized' }, { status: 401 })

>     }
>     return json({

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    }
    
     // Add logic that retrieves the data for the API route
     
    return json({
```

      userId,
    })
  },
})
```

### Usage with `getToken()`

> `getAuth()` returns `getToken()`, which is a method that returns the current user's session token. You can also use this function to retrieve a custom JWT template, like in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`getAuth()` returns `getToken()`, which is a method that returns the current user's session token. You can also use this function to retrieve a token from a custom JWT template and use it to fetch data from an external source, as shown in the following example:
```

> ```ts {{ filename: 'app/routes/api/currentUser.ts' }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ts {{ filename: 'app/routes/api/example.ts' }}
```

Author: Fixed!

import { getAuth } from '@clerk/nextjs/server'
import { json } from '@tanstack/start'
import { createAPIFileRoute } from '@tanstack/start/api'

export const Route = createAPIFileRoute('/api/currentUser')({
  GET: async ({ request, params }) => {
    const { userId, getToken } = await getAuth(request)

    if (!userId) {
      return json({ error: 'Unauthorized' }, { status: 401 })
    }

    const token = await getToken({ template: 'supabase' })

    // Add logic that retrieves the data
    // from your database using the token

    return json({
      // ...
    })
  },
})

> ```

Reviewer: Did we want to copy this example over as well?

https://clerk.com/docs/references/nextjs/get-auth#usage-with-clerk-client

Author: Added!

  - `secretKey?`: A string that represents the secret key used to sign the session token. If not provided, the secret key is retrieved from the environment variable `CLERK_SECRET_KEY`.
</Properties>

## Returns

`getAuth()` returns the [`Auth`](/docs/references/nextjs/auth-object) object.

## Usage

### Basic usage

The following example demonstrates how to use `getAuth()` to retrieve authentication information in a server function and API routes.

```tsx {{ filename: 'app/routes/index.tsx' }}
import { createFileRoute, useRouter, redirect } from '@tanstack/react-router'
import { createServerFn } from '@tanstack/start'
import { getAuth } from '@clerk/tanstack-start/server'

const authStateFn = createServerFn('GET', async (_, { request }) => {
  const { userId } = await getAuth(request)

  if (!userId) {
    throw redirect({
      to: '/sign-in',
    })
  }

  return { userId }
})

export const Route = createFileRoute('/')({
  component: Home,
  beforeLoad: await authStateFn(),
  loader: async ({ context }) => {
    return { userId: context.userId }
  },
})

function Home() {

>   const router = useRouter()

Author: ```suggestion

```
